= Certificate Depot

Certificate Depot is a mini certification authority; it allows you to create and manage TLS certificates. Depot has three parts: a library, a command-line utility, and a server.

== Getting started

If you want to use the CA (Certificate Authority) functionality you need to setup a directory with some configuration and database files. The last argument is the name of the CA, it will appear on the certificates as the organization handing out the certificates.

  $ depot init /tmp/example-ca Example Certificate Authority

== Accessing a depot

There are three ways to access a depot. From code, from the command-line or through a socket connection to the server.

=== Accessing a depot from code

Basic operations are accessible through the classmethods on CertificateDepot.

  keypair, certificate = CertificateDepot.generate_keypair_and_certificate('/tmp/example-ca', {
    :type          => :client,
    :common_name   => 'Bob Owner',
    :email_address => 'bob@example.com',
    :user_id       => '12'
  })

Other operations can be accessed by instantiating a depot.

  depot = CertificateDepot.new('/tmp/example-ca')
  depot.label #=> 'Example Certificate Authority'

For the rest you probably want to consult the API documentation.

=== Accessing a depot from the command-line

Using the <tt>--help</tt> option you can get a pretty good description of what the command-line utility does. Let's look at one of the commands.

  $ depot generate /tmp/example-ca --cn 'Bob Owner' --email 'bob@example.com' --uid '12' > bob_owner.pem

=== Accesing a depot through a socket

First we have to start a server. Note that for simplicity the server doesn't have any security features and it's even possible to shutdown the server when you have access to it.

  $ depot start /tmp/example-ca

After this you can get documentation by connecting to the server. The <tt>help</tt> command list all available command and <tt>help [command]</tt> will tell you more about the command.

  $ awk% telnet 127.0.0.1 35553
  Trying 127.0.0.1...
  Connected to airy.local.
  Escape character is '^]'.
  help
  generate shutdown
  Connection closed by foreign host.
  
  $ awk% telnet 127.0.0.1 35553
  Trying 127.0.0.1...
  Connected to airy.local.
  Escape character is '^]'.
  help generate
  GENERATE
    generate <distinguished name>
  RETURNS
    A private key and certificate in PEM format.
  EXAMPLE
    generate /UID=12/CN=Bob Owner,emailAddress=bob@example.com
  Connection closed by foreign host.

When you're done you can stop the server with the command-line utility or by issuing the <tt>shutdown</tt> command.

  $ depot stop